Adds a post for supporting ControlNet from `diffusers` (#888)
huggingface/blog: controlnet.md

authors:
- user: takuma104
  guest: true
- user: patrickvonplaten
- user: YiYiXu
---

# Welcoming ControlNet to Diffusers 🧨

<!-- {blog_metadata} -->
<!-- {authors} -->

<script async defer src="https://unpkg.com/medium-zoom-element@0/dist/medium-zoom-element.min.js"></script>

<a target="_blank" href="https://colab.research.google.com/github/nateraw/huggingface-hub-examples/blob/main/vit_image_classification_explained.ipynb">
    <img src="https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg" alt="Open In Colab"/>
</a> <!-- Update the Colab Notebook link-->

Today we’re thrilled to announce that Diffusers now officially supports ControlNet!

The amount of controlled generation the original Stable Diffusion models offer has been far from desired. For example, you won’t be able to generate images conditioned on a semantic segmentation map along with the input text prompt. ControlNet provides a minimal interface to tackle this problem allowing users to customize the generation process up to a great extent. With ControlNet, users can easily condition the generation with different spatial contexts such as a depth map, a segmentation map, a scribble, keypoints, and so on! 

> In this blog post, we first introduce the `StableDiffusionControlNetPipeline` and then show how it can suit various controlled outputs. 

Author: Let's make sure we hyperlink it (`StableDiffusionControlNetPipeline`) correctly.

Let’s get controlling! 

> ***[Include a collage of cool examples?]***

Author: Working on this.

---
title: "Welcoming ControlNet to Diffusers 🧨" 
thumbnail: /blog/assets/controlnet/thumbnail.png <!-- UPDATE -->
authors:
- user: takuma104
  guest: true
- user: patrickvonplaten

> - user: YiYiXu

Reviewer: I think Will's been involved in it a lot too :)

---

> # Welcoming ControlNet to Diffusers 🧨

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# Using ControlNet in Diffusers 🧨
```

<!-- {blog_metadata} -->
<!-- {authors} -->

> <script async defer src="https://unpkg.com/medium-zoom-element@0/dist/medium-zoom-element.min.js"></script>

Reviewer: 👀 interesting, what is this for?

Author: For Colab, I guess. I just took it from one of the blog post mds that is using Open in Colab button.

<a target="_blank" href="https://colab.research.google.com/github/nateraw/huggingface-hub-examples/blob/main/vit_image_classification_explained.ipynb">
    <img src="https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg" alt="Open In Colab"/>
</a> <!-- Update the Colab Notebook link-->

> Today we’re thrilled to announce that Diffusers now officially supports ControlNet!

Reviewer 2: Not a big fan of making blog posts "announcement" -> they should stand the test of time. I'd rather frame the blog post as a 101-guide for controlnet

> The amount of controlled generation the original Stable Diffusion models offer has been far from desired. For example, you won’t be able to generate images conditioned on a semantic segmentation map along with the input text prompt. ControlNet provides a minimal interface to tackle this problem allowing users to customize the generation process up to a great extent. With ControlNet, users can easily condition the generation with different spatial contexts such as a depth map, a segmentation map, a scribble, keypoints, and so on! 

Reviewer: Just an idea, I would maybe reframe the intro sentences in a more positive tone. Something like "Ever since Stable Diffusion took the world by storm, people have been looking for ways to have more control over the results of the generation process...."

Reviewer 3: I think maybe we can open with what's possible with controlnet and post images of the cool creations/use case

Reviewer 2: Good idea - this can get the reader excited. Maybe we can compile the 8 coolest controlnet generations and add them as small pictures here.

Author: @yiyixuxu do you have the picture in mind?

Reviewer 3: I added a section with this commit https://github.com/huggingface/blog/pull/888/commits/591ade98818b3b4fe93622cdef836272473c0953
I don't think the images render nicely with different sizes

In this blog post, we first introduce the [`StableDiffusionControlNetPipeline`](https://huggingface.co/docs/diffusers/main/en/api/pipelines/stable_diffusion/controlnet) and then show how it can suit various controlled outputs. 

Let’s get controlling! 

<p align="center">
<img src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/blog/controlnet/collage.png" width=600/>
</p>

> ## ControlNet: TL;DR

Reviewer 2: Would be nice if we could make this section a bit longer and a bit more scientific to teach the reader. E.g. what is the intuition behind control net, how does it work (show diagram as mentioned below)

ControlNet was introduced in [Adding Conditional Control to Text-to-Image Diffusion Models](https://arxiv.org/abs/2302.05543) by Lvmin Zhang and Maneesh Agrawala. It introduces a framework that allows for supporting various spatial contexts that can serve as additional conditionings to Diffusion models such as Stable Diffusion. It is comprised of the following steps:

1. Cloning the pre-trained parameters of a Diffusion model such as Stable Diffusion (referred to as “trainable copy”) while also maintaining the pre-trained parameters separately (”locked copy”). It is done so that the locked parameter copy can preserve the vast knowledge learned from a large dataset, whereas the trainable copy is employed to learn task-specific aspects. 

> 2. The trainable and locked copies of the parameters are connected via “zero convolution” layers which are optimized as a part of the ControlNet framework.  

Reviewer: Maybe add something like "This is a training trick to preserve previous results while the new conditions are being trained"

Reviewer 2: Can we copy-paste the nice diagram from the original repo here that shows how exactly control net works, e.g. this diagram: https://github.com/lllyasviel/ControlNet/blob/main/github_page/sd.png

A sample from the training set for ControlNet-like training looks like this (additional conditioning is via edge maps):

<div align="center">
    <table>
    <tr>
        <th>Original Image</th>
        <th>Conditioning</th>
        <th>Prompt</th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td><img src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/blog/controlnet/original_bird.png" width=300/></td>
        <td><img src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/blog/controlnet/input_canny.png" width=300/></td>
        <td>"bird"</td>
    </tr>
    </table>
</div>

> Similarly, if we were to condition ControlNet with semantic segmentation maps, a training sample would been like so:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Similarly, if we were to condition ControlNet with semantic segmentation maps, a training sample would be like so:
```

Reviewer: Maybe add: Every new type of conditioning requires training a new copy of ControlNet weights. The paper proposed 8 different conditioning models that are all supported in Diffusers! Trained ControlNet models are chosen during inference, as we'll see below.

Author: Excellent idea!

<div align="center">
    <table>
    <tr>
        <th>Original Image</th>
        <th>Conditioning</th>
        <th>Prompt</th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td><img src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/blog/controlnet/original_house.png" width=300/></td>
        <td><img src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/blog/controlnet/segmentation_map.png" width=300/></td>
        <td>"big house"</td>
    </tr>
    </table>
</div>

> ## The `StableDiffusionControlNetPipeline`

Reviewer 2: Nice transition to code. Can we make sure that our code examples full fill three things:

- Code is easy & intuitive (one can easily swap out different controlnets)
- We show how fast and memory efficient diffusers' implementation is (use fast sampler and model offloading)
- We show some cool examples

Author: @yiyixuxu has done an amazing work here. Does it look better now?

> To experiment with ControlNet, we expose `StableDiffusionControlNetPipeline` similar to

Reviewer 2: Let's make sure to link to the pipeline doc page here

we can use the same ContrlNet, however instead of using the Stable Diffusion 1.5, we are going to load the [Mr Potato Head model](https://huggingface.co/sd-dreambooth-library/mr-potato-head) into our pipeline - Mr Potato Head is a Stable Diffusion model fine-tuned with Mr Potato Head concept using Dreambooth 🥔

```python
model_id = "sd-dreambooth-library/mr-potato-head"
pipe = StableDiffusionControlNetPipeline.from_pretrained(
    model_id,
    controlnet=controlnet,
    torch_dtype=torch.float16,
)
pipe.scheduler = UniPCMultistepScheduler.from_config(pipe.scheduler.config)
pipe.enable_model_cpu_offload()
```

Now let's make Mr Potato posing for Johannes Vermeer 😆

```python
generator = torch.Generator(device="cpu").manual_seed(2)
prompt = "a photo of sks mr potato head, best quality, extremely detailed"
output = pipe(
    prompt,
    canny_image,
    negative_prompt="monochrome, lowres, bad anatomy, worst quality, low quality",
    generator=generator,
)
```

I think we can all agree that Mr Potato Head is not the best candidate but he tried his best and did a pretty good job in capture some of the essence! 

> 

Author: Blog posts are usually about collective conveyance. Avoid using "I".

We will explore different use cases with the `StableDiffusionControlNetPipeline` in this blog post. The first ControlNet model we are going to walk through is the Canny model - this is one of the most popular models that generated some of the most amazing images you will see on the internet.

We welcome you to run the code snippets shown in the sections below with [this Colab Notebook](https://colab.research.google.com/github/huggingface/notebooks/blob/main/diffusers/controlnet.ipynb).

Before we begin, let's make sure we have all the necessary libraries installed:

```bash
pip install -qqq git+https://github.com/huggingface/diffusers.git transformers
pip install -q git+https://github.com/huggingface/accelerate
```

We will also to install OpenCV and `controlnet-aux`:

```bash
pip install opencv-contrib-python
pip install controlnet_aux
```

We will use the famous painting ["Girl With A Pearl"](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Girl_with_a_Pearl_Earring) for this example. So, let's download the image and take a look:

```python

> from diffusers import StableDiffusionControlNetPipeline
> from diffusers.utils import load_image

Author: ```suggestion
from diffusers.utils import load_image
```

Author: @patrickvonplaten while you are at it.

---
title: "ControlNet in Diffusers 🧨" 
thumbnail: /blog/assets/controlnet/thumbnail.png 
authors:

> - user: takuma104

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- user: sayakpaul
- user: yiyixu
```

>   guest: true

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> - user: diffusers

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

---

# ControlNet in Diffusers 🧨

<!-- {blog_metadata} -->

> <!-- {authors} -->

Reviewer 2: I can add those later

    <td><img class="mx-auto" src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/YiYiXu/controlnet-testing/resolve/main/house_after.jpeg" width=300/></td>
</tr>
</table>

You can turn your sketch scribble into an artistic drawing.

<table>
<tr style="text-align: center;">
    <th>Before</th>
    <th>After</th>
</tr>
<tr>
    <td><img class="mx-auto" src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/YiYiXu/controlnet-testing/resolve/main/drawing_before.png" width=300/></td>
    <td><img class="mx-auto" src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/YiYiXu/controlnet-testing/resolve/main/drawing_after.jpeg" width=300/></td>
</tr>
</table>

Also, make some of the famous logos coming to life.

<table>
<tr style="text-align: center;">
    <th>Before</th>
    <th>After</th>
</tr>
<tr>
    <td><img class="mx-auto" src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/YiYiXu/controlnet-testing/resolve/main/starbucks_logo.jpeg" width=300/></td>
    <td><img class="mx-auto" src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/YiYiXu/controlnet-testing/resolve/main/starbucks_after.png" width=300/></td>
</tr>
</table>

With ControlNet, sky is the limit 🌠 

> In this blog post, we first introduce the [`StableDiffusionControlNetPipeline`](https://huggingface.co/docs/diffusers/main/en/api/pipelines/stable_diffusion/controlnet) and then show how it can suit various controlled outputs. Let’s get controlling! 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this blog post, we first introduce the [`StableDiffusionControlNetPipeline`](https://huggingface.co/docs/diffusers/main/en/api/pipelines/stable_diffusion/controlnet) and then show how it can suit various controlled outputs. Let’s get controlling! 

```

## ControlNet: TL;DR

ControlNet was introduced in [Adding Conditional Control to Text-to-Image Diffusion Models](https://arxiv.org/abs/2302.05543) by Lvmin Zhang and Maneesh Agrawala. It introduces a framework that allows for supporting various spatial contexts that can serve as additional conditionings to Diffusion models such as Stable Diffusion. It is comprised of the following steps:

> 1. Cloning the pre-trained parameters of a Diffusion model such as Stable Diffusion (referred to as “trainable copy”) while also maintaining the pre-trained parameters separately (”locked copy”). It is done so that the locked parameter copy can preserve the vast knowledge learned from a large dataset, whereas the trainable copy is employed to learn task-specific aspects. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Cloning the pre-trained parameters of a Diffusion model such as Stable Diffusion's latent UNet (referred to as “trainable copy”) while also maintaining the pre-trained parameters separately (”locked copy”). It is done so that the locked parameter copy can preserve the vast knowledge learned from a large dataset, whereas the trainable copy is employed to learn task-specific aspects. 
```

)
image
```

<p align="center">
<img src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/YiYiXu/test-doc-assets/resolve/main/blog_post_cell_6_output_0.jpeg" width=600/>
</p>

Next, we will put the image through the canny pre-processor:

```python
import cv2
from PIL import Image
import numpy as np

image = np.array(image)

low_threshold = 100
high_threshold = 200

image = cv2.Canny(image, low_threshold, high_threshold)
image = image[:, :, None]
image = np.concatenate([image, image, image], axis=2)
canny_image = Image.fromarray(image)
canny_image
```

As we can see, it is essentially edge detection:

<p align="center">
<img src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/YiYiXu/test-doc-assets/resolve/main/blog_post_cell_10_output_0.jpeg" width=600/>
</p>

Now, we load the official Stable Diffusion 1.5 Model as well as the ControlNet model for canny edges.

```python
from diffusers import StableDiffusionControlNetPipeline, ControlNetModel
import torch

controlnet = ControlNetModel.from_pretrained("lllyasviel/sd-controlnet-canny", torch_dtype=torch.float16)
pipe = StableDiffusionControlNetPipeline.from_pretrained(
    "runwayml/stable-diffusion-v1-5", controlnet=controlnet, torch_dtype=torch.float16
)
```

> To speed things up and reduce memory, let’s use the fast [UniPCMultistepScheduler](https://huggingface.co/docs/diffusers/main/en/api/schedulers/unipc) and enable model offloading.

Reviewer 2: I'd like to go a bit more in-depth here (not just copy-paste from: https://huggingface.co/docs/diffusers/main/en/api/pipelines/stable_diffusion/controlnet#usage-example)

```python
from diffusers import UniPCMultistepScheduler

pipe.scheduler = UniPCMultistepScheduler.from_config(pipe.scheduler.config)

> # This command loads the individual model components on GPU on-demand. So, we don't

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# This command loads the individual model components only when required.
```

> # need to explicitly call pipe.to("cuda").

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Author: Why delete it? Doesn't it make things explicitly clear?

pipe.enable_model_cpu_offload()
```

Now we are ready to run the ControlNet pipeline!

We still provide a prompt to guide the image generation process, just like what we would normally do with a Stable Diffusion image-to-image pipeline. However, ControlNet will allow a lot more control over the generated image because we will be able to control the exact composition in generated image with the canny edge image we just created.

It will be fun to see some images where contemporary celebrities posing for this exact same painting from the 17th century. And it's really easy to do that with ControlNet, all we have to do is to include the names of these celebrities in the prompt!

```python
def image_grid(imgs, rows, cols):
    assert len(imgs) == rows * cols

    w, h = imgs[0].size
    grid = Image.new("RGB", size=(cols * w, rows * h))
    grid_w, grid_h = grid.size

    for i, img in enumerate(imgs):
        grid.paste(img, box=(i % cols * w, i // cols * h))
    return grid

prompt = ", best quality, extremely detailed"
prompt = [t + prompt for t in ["Sandra Oh", "Kim Kardashian", "rihanna", "taylor swift"]]

> generator = [torch.Generator(device="cpu").manual_seed(2) for i in range(4)]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
generator = torch.manual_seed(2)
```

output = pipe(
    prompt,
    canny_image,
    negative_prompt=["monochrome, lowres, bad anatomy, worst quality, low quality"] * 4,
    generator=generator,
)

image_grid(output.images, 2, 2)
```

<p align="center">
<img src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/YiYiXu/test-doc-assets/resolve/main/blog_post_cell_16_output_1.jpeg" width=600/>
</p>

We can effortlessly combine ControlNet combines with fine-tuning too! For example, we can fine-tune a model with [DreamBooth](https://huggingface.co/docs/diffusers/main/en/training/dreambooth), and use it to render ourselves into different scenes.

In this post, we are going to use our beloved Mr Potato Head as an example to show how to use ControlNet with DreamBooth.

> We can use the same ContrlNet, however instead of using the Stable Diffusion 1.5, we are going to load the [Mr Potato Head model](https://huggingface.co/sd-dreambooth-library/mr-potato-head) into our pipeline - Mr Potato Head is a Stable Diffusion model fine-tuned with Mr Potato Head concept using Dreambooth 🥔

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We can use the same ControlNet, however instead of using the Stable Diffusion 1.5, we are going to load the [Mr Potato Head model](https://huggingface.co/sd-dreambooth-library/mr-potato-head) into our pipeline - Mr Potato Head is a Stable Diffusion model fine-tuned with Mr Potato Head concept using Dreambooth 🥔
```

</p>

Now let's extract yoga poses using the OpenPose pre-processors:

```python
from controlnet_aux import OpenposeDetector

model = OpenposeDetector.from_pretrained("lllyasviel/ControlNet")

poses = [model(img) for img in imgs]
image_grid(poses, 2, 2)
```

<p align="center">
    <img src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/YiYiXu/test-doc-assets/resolve/main/blog_post_cell_28_output_0.jpeg" width=600/>
</p>

To use these yoga poses to generate new images, let's create a [Open Pose ControlNet](https://huggingface.co/lllyasviel/sd-controlnet-openpose). We are going to get our cute anime girl from [the Anything-V4 model](https://huggingface.co/andite/anything-v4.0). Let's go 🚀

```python
controlnet = ControlNetModel.from_pretrained(
    "fusing/stable-diffusion-v1-5-controlnet-openpose", torch_dtype=torch.float16
)

model_id = "andite/anything-v4.0"
pipe = StableDiffusionControlNetPipeline.from_pretrained(
    model_id,
    controlnet=controlnet,
    torch_dtype=torch.float16,
)
pipe.scheduler = UniPCMultistepScheduler.from_config(pipe.scheduler.config)
pipe.enable_model_cpu_offload()
```

Now it's yoga time! 

```python

> generator = [torch.Generator(device="cpu").manual_seed(2) for i in range(4)]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
generator = [torch.manual_seed(2) for i in range(4)]
```

Reviewer 2: If we always use the same seed we don't have to pass a list of seeds

---
title: "ControlNet in 🧨 Diffusers" 
thumbnail: /blog/assets/controlnet/thumbnail.png 
authors:
- user: sayakpaul
- user: yiyixu
---

# ControlNet in 🧨 Diffusers

<!-- {blog_metadata} -->
<!-- {authors} -->

<script async defer src="https://unpkg.com/medium-zoom-element@0/dist/medium-zoom-element.min.js"></script>

<style>
.mx-auto {
    margin-left: auto;
    margin-right: auto;
}

> </style>

Reviewer 4: you can just use the TailwindCSS property instead of defining this

---
title: "Welcoming ControlNet to Diffusers 🧨" 
thumbnail: /blog/assets/controlnet/thumbnail.png <!-- UPDATE -->
authors:
- user: takuma104
  guest: true
- user: patrickvonplaten
- user: YiYiXu
---

# Welcoming ControlNet to Diffusers 🧨

<!-- {blog_metadata} -->
<!-- {authors} -->

> Today we’re thrilled to announce that Diffusers now officially supports ControlNet!

Author: `ControlNet` should be hyperlinked with the official documentation page.

Reviewer: Agreed, it should be:

```suggestion
Today we’re thrilled to announce that Diffusers now officially supports [ControlNet](https://huggingface.co/docs/diffusers/main/en/api/pipelines/stable_diffusion/controlnet)!
```
